.\"
.\" Line 6 Pod 2.3 MIDI Tool
.\" Manual Page
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2013 Eldad Zack <eldad@fogrefinery.com>
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307 USA
.\"
.TH POD6CTL 1 "February 2013" "pod6ctl - Line 6 Pod 2.3 MIDI Control Tool" "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
pod6ctl \- Line 6 Pod 2.3 MIDI Control Tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pod6ctl
[\fIcommand\fR] <\fIoptions\fR>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pod6ctl
can be used to backup and restore bank settings for Line 6 POD 2.0 devices.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP -p,\ --port
Specifies the ALSA raw MIDI port (example: hw:0).
.br
Required for commands that communicate with the device: \fBquery\fR, \fBsave\fR and \fBrestore\fR.
.br
You can use
.B amidi -l
(from the
.B alsa-utils
package) to list the available MIDI ports.
.IP -b
Specifies the POD bank, from 1A to 9D.
.IP -o,\ --overwrite
Allow overwriting of files, when used with the \fBsave\fR command.
.IP -v,\ --verbose
Verbose output.
.IP -D,\ --debug
Debugging output.
.IP --nohello
Hello supression (no device discovery). See "Supported Devices" section below.
.IP -h,\ --help
Show help text.
.SH COMMANDS
query
.RS
Query the settings of a single bank from device. Requires \fB-b\fR.
.br
.I Note:
if the current bank is queried and its setting has been changed (i.e., the "\fISAVE\fR" button is blinking), this will return the settings before any changes.
.P
.RE
save \fIfilename\fR
.RS
Save all banks to a file. Requires \fB-p\fR.
.I Note:
By default this command will not overwrite an existing file. Use \fB-o\fR to override this default.
.BR
.RE
.P
restore \fIfilename\fR
.RS
Restore all banks from a file. Requires \fB-p\fR.
.BR
.RE
.P
list \fIfilename\fR
.RS
List all banks stored in a file.
.BR
.RE
.P
name \fIbankname\fR
.RS
Set a bank name, writes to POD. Requires \fB-p\fR and \fB-b\fR.
.RE
.P
attr
.RS
Shows available attribute. Use \fB-v\fR to display attribute ranges/switch definitions
.RE
.P
set \fIattr\fR \fIvalue\fR
.RS
Set a value to an attribute, writes to POD. Requires \fB-p\fR and \fB-b\fR.
.RE
.P
setdirect \fIattr\fR \fIvalue\fR
.RS
Set a DIRECT, UNTRANSLATED value to an attribute, writes to POD.
.br
\fBThis is for debugging purposes and otherwise NOT RECOMMENDED! Use 'set' instead!\fR Requires \fB-p\fR and \fB-b\fR.
.RE
.SH SUPPORTED DEVICES
The only device currently supported is POD 2.3.
Other versions of the POD 2.0 (or maybe even 1.0) might also work - however, before communicating with the device, a discovery is performed and matched against the version string returned by the POD 2.3.
"Hello Supression" (\fB--nohello\fR) may be used to try out a different device version. \fICaveat emptor\fR.
.SH BUGS
No known issues. Please report bugs to the author.
.SH SEE ALSO
amidi(1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2013 Eldad Zack. This software is licensed under the GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE Version 2. See COPYING for more information.
.br
Portions derived from ALSA source code (\fIwww.alsa-project.org\fR), in particular amidi(1) written by Clemens Ladisch <clemens@ladisch.de>.
.br
Line 6 POD\(tm is a trademark of Line 6, Inc. This software is not in any way endorsed by or affiliated with Line 6, Inc.
.br
All other names used are trademarks of their respective owners.
.SH AUTHOR
Eldad Zack <eldad@fogrefinery.com>
